# Homework 5


### Overview

The goal of this homework is to perform a complete data wrangling
workflow using data from a survey about people’s favorite Halloween
candy.

Benjamin Cohen and David Ng have been conducting a Halloween candy
survey for a couple of years and writing it up:

- [2017 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2017/10/30/the-2017-halloween-candy-hiera.html)

- [2016 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2016/10/31/the-candy-hierarchy-for-2016.html)

- [2015 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2015/10/31/the-candy-hierarchy-2015-your.html)

- [2014 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2014/10/31/the-candy-hierarchy-2014.html)

- [2013 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2013/10/30/the-candy-hierarchy-2013.html)

- [2012 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2012/10/29/the-candy-hierarchy-2012.html)

- [2011 Candy
  Ranking](https://boingboing.net/2010/10/22/the-candy-hierarchy.html)

For this homework, you are going to use the [2017 Candy Survey
Data](https://www.scq.ubc.ca/so-much-candy-data-seriously/)

It is vital that you finish some task, nachos to cheesecake. We want a
bit of story, some tables, some figures. Keep scaling back the cleaning
and reshaping until you can manage this. Then scale up until you run out
of time or patience.

### Your mission

Bring the [2017 Candy Survey
data](https://www.scq.ubc.ca/so-much-candy-data-seriously/) – or part of
it – to a ready-to-analyze state and complete some exploratory /
analytical task.

Some example tasks:

- Easy: Examining how joy/despair scores change with age

- Medium: Comparing the joy/despair values of different types of candy
  (Chocolate vs. “true candy” like Nerds/Starburst)

- Medium: Looking for predictors of candy preference (i.e. in the
  non-candy fields, or perhaps looking at correlations between candy
  preferences).

- Hard: Looking for ‘structure’ in the data. For example, are there
  classes of individuals with similar candy preference profiles?

### Sections of the Assignment

#### Examining the raw data and choosing a task

Familiarize yourself with the raw data if you haven’t already. Based on
the information available, formulate a task you want to complete and
explain what it is. Make it fairly specific, like the tasks above.

#### Wrangling Based on the task you chose

Get the data in a workable format. This will likely involve all kinds of
fun dropping columns, using functions to clean text and headers, some
tidyr for pivoting, etc. Divide each step by a unique heading in your
document. By the end, you will likely want things in tidy data format so
you can easily use dplyr/ggplot for your analysis/exploration.

#### Exploring/Analyzing

Now that your data us ready to analyze, complete the task you set out to
complete! This will also be multipart, so again divide things up
logically. Perhaps you will start with some basic exploration + tables
to get a sense of the data, and then move onto dplyr and plotting.

#### But I Want to Do More!

Taking a sufficiently difficult/ambitious task to completion would
certainly qualify you for a check plus, but here are some other ideas:

- Do some longitudinal analyses by pairing data from [previous
  years](https://www.scq.ubc.ca/so-much-candy-data-seriously/) (2016,
  2015, and 2014) with the 2017 data set.

### A Word of Warning

The candy survey data comes straight from people on the internet
completing an anonymous survey. As I’m sure you can imagine, this means
that the datasets may contain offensive and downright terrifying
responses. If you look closely enough at the open ended text responses,
I’m confident you will find some choice language or offensive ideas. If
you don’t want to be exposed to this type of thing, consider avoiding
the open ended questions.

### Rubric

As always, refer to the [general rubric](general-rubric.md) for
guidelines on how we’ll be grading.

Check minus: Student did not sufficiently complete any of the above
sections, or performed a trivially simple task. Weak application of
wrangling skills learned in class. Student missed clear opportunities to
complement numbers with a figure. Technical problem(s) that are
relatively easy to fix. It’s hard to find the report in your Rproject
folder.

Check: Hits all the elements. You chose a reasonable task, wrangling the
data, and completed the task. No obvious mistakes. Pleasant to read. No
heroic detective work required. Solid.

Check plus: Exceeded the requirements in number of dimensions. Chose an
ambitious/difficult task and pulled it off. Impressive use of `dplyr`,
`tidyr`, `broom`, `ggplot2`, etc. Impeccable organization of your
report. We learned something new from reviewing your work and are eager
to incorporate it into our own work.
